Update istioctl install docs with overlay examples (#7336)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/setup/install/istioctl/index.md

namespaces and enablement settings. The Istio community recommends using the `IstioOperator` API as it is more
consistent, is validated, and follows the [community graduation process](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/FEATURE-LIFECYCLE-CHECKLIST.md#feature-lifecycle-checklist).

## Advanced install customization

### Customizing external charts and profiles

> `istioctl` `install`, `manifest generate` and `profile` commands can use any of the following sources for charts and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `istioctl` `install`, `manifest generate` and `profile` commands can use any of the following sources for charts and
```

profiles:

- compiled in charts. This is the default if no `--charts` option is set. The compiled in charts are the same as those

> in the `manifests/` directory in Istio release `.tgz`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the `manifests/` directory of the Istio release `.tgz`.
```

> - charts in the local file system e.g. `istioctl install --charts istio-1.6.0/manifests`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- charts in the local file system, e.g., `istioctl install --charts istio-1.6.0/manifests`
```

> - charts in GitHub e.g. `istioctl install --charts https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/download/1.6.0/istio-1.6.0-linux-arm64.tar.gz`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- charts in GitHub, e.g., `istioctl install --charts https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/download/1.6.0/istio-1.6.0-linux-arm64.tar.gz`
```

> Local file system charts and profiles can be customized by editing the files in the `manifests/`. For extensive changes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local file system charts and profiles can be customized by editing the files in `manifests/`. For extensive changes,
```

> it's recommended to make a copy of this directory and make changes to the copy. `istioctl` requires the same file layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we recommend making a copy of the `manifests` directory and make changes there. Note, however, that the content layout
```

> as in `manifests` to be preserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the `manifests` file must be preserved.
```

Author: it should be: of the `manifests` directory must be preserved.

Reviewer: Ah, sorry. See updated suggestion.

Profiles, found under `manifests/profiles/`, can be edited and new ones added by creating new files with the
desired profile name and a `.yaml` extension. `istioctl` scans the `profiles` subdirectory and all profiles found there
can be referenced by name in the `IstioOperatorSpec` profile field. Built-in profiles are overlaid on the default profile YAML before user
overlays are applied. For example, you can create a new profile file called `custom1.yaml` which customizes some settings
from the `default` profile, and then apply a user overlay file on top of that:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl generate --charts mycharts/ --set profile=custom1 -f path-to-user-overlay.yaml
{{< /text >}}

In this case, the `custom1.yaml` and `user-overlay.yaml` files will be overlaid on the `default.yaml` file to obtain the

> final values used as an input to manifest generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
final values used as the input for manifest generation.
```

In general, creating new profiles is not necessary since a similar result can be achieved by passing multiple overlay

> files. For The command above is equivalent to passing two user overlay files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
files. For example, the command above is equivalent to passing two user overlay files:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl generate --charts mycharts/ --f manifests/profiles/custom1.yaml -f path-to-user-overlay.yaml
{{< /text >}}

> Creating a custom profile is only required if you need to refer to a profile by name through the `IstioOperatorSpec`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a custom profile is only required if you need to refer to the profile by name through the `IstioOperatorSpec`.
```

### Patching the output manifest

> The `IstioOperator` CR input to `istioctl` is used to generate the output manifest containing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `IstioOperator` CR, input to `istioctl`, is used to generate the output manifest containing the
```

      k8s:
        overlays:
          - kind: Deployment
            name: istiod
            patches:
              # Select list item by value
              - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].args.[30m]
                value: "60m" # overridden from 30m
              # Select list item by key:value
              - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].ports.[containerPort:8080].containerPort
                value: 1234
              # Override with object (note | on value: first line)
              - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].env.[name:POD_NAMESPACE].valueFrom
                value: |
                  fieldRef:
                    apiVersion: v2
                    fieldPath: metadata.myPath
              # Deletion of list item
              - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].env.[name:REVISION]
              # Deletion of map item
              - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].securityContext
          - kind: Service
            name: istiod
            patches:
              - path: spec.ports.[name:https-dns].port
                value: 11111 # OVERRIDDEN
{{< /text >}}

> Passing the file to `istioctl manifest generate -f patch.yaml` applies the patches above to the default profile output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Passing the file to `istioctl manifest generate -f patch.yaml` applies the above patches to the default profile output
```

manifest. The two patched resources will be modified as shown below (some parts of the resources are omitted for
brevity):

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: istiod
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - args:
        - 60m
        env:
        - name: POD_NAMESPACE
          valueFrom:
            fieldRef:
              apiVersion: v2
              fieldPath: metadata.myPath
        name: discovery
        ports:
        - containerPort: 1234

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: istiod
spec:
  ports:
  - name: https-dns
    port: 11111
---
{{< /text >}}

> Note that the patches are applied in the given order, and each patch is applied over the resulting output from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the patches are applied in the given order. Each patch is applied over the output from the
```

> previous patch. In addition, paths in patches that do not exist in the output manifest are created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
previous patch. Paths in patches that don't exist in the output manifest will be created.
```

### List item path selection

> Both the `--set` flag and the `k8s.overlays` support list item selection by `[index]`, `[value]` or by `[key:value]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the `istioctl --set` flag and the `k8s.overlays` field in `IstioOperator` CR support list item selection by `[index]`, `[value]` or by `[key:value]`.
```
